Core Setup & Initialization
git --version:

Explanation: Checks if Git is installed on your system and displays the version number.

git config --global user.name "Your Name":

Explanation: Sets your name globally, which will be attached to your commits.

git config --global user.email "your.email@example.com":

Explanation: Sets your email address globally, which is also attached to your commits.

git init:

Explanation: Initializes a new Git repository in the current directory, creating a hidden .git folder to start version controlling your project.

Basic Local Workflow
git status:

Explanation: Shows the current state of your working directory and staging area. It displays which changes are staged, which are not, and which files aren't being tracked.

git add <file> or git add .:

Explanation: Adds a specific file or all changes in the current directory (.) to the staging area, preparing them for the next commit. (This command is covered in the "Basic Commands" section).

git commit -m "Your commit message":

Explanation: Takes all changes in the staging area and saves them as a new, permanent snapshot (commit) in the project's history with a descriptive message.

git log:

Explanation: Displays a detailed history of all commits made to the repository, showing the author, date, and commit message for each.

Undoing Changes
git reset:

Explanation: A powerful command used to undo changes. It can move the current branch tip backward, potentially discarding commits, and can also unstage files.

git revert:

Explanation: Creates a new commit that undoes the changes from a previous commit. It's a safer way to undo changes than reset because it doesn't rewrite history.

Branching & Merging
git branch:

Explanation: Lists all branches in your repository. With an argument (git branch <branch-name>), it creates a new branch.

git checkout <branch-name> or git switch <branch-name>:

Explanation: Switches your active working context to a different branch. (The tutorial uses checkout, which is the classic command).

git merge <branch-name>:

Explanation: Takes the changes from the specified branch and integrates them into your current branch. This is how you combine work from different lines of development.

git cherry-pick <commit-hash>:

Explanation: Allows you to apply the changes from one specific commit (identified by its hash) into your current branch, without merging the entire branch.

Working with Remote Repositories (GitHub/GitLab)
git remote add origin <repository-url>:

Explanation: Creates a connection between your local repository and a remote one (like on GitHub or GitLab), naming it "origin".

git push -u origin <branch-name>:

Explanation: Uploads your local commits from a specific branch to the remote repository. The -u flag sets the upstream branch for future pushes.

git clone <repository-url>:

Explanation: Creates a complete local copy of a remote repository on your computer, including its entire history.

git pull:

Explanation: Fetches the latest changes from the remote repository and immediately merges them into your current local branch.

git fetch:

Explanation: Downloads the latest changes (commits, branches) from the remote repository but does not merge them into your current working branch, allowing you to review them first.

Advanced & Utility Commands
git stash:

Explanation: Temporarily saves (or "stashes") your uncommitted changes, cleaning your working directory so you can switch branches or work on something else. You can re-apply the stashed changes later.

.gitignore (file):

Explanation: A special file where you list patterns for files and folders (e.g., node_modules/, *.log) that Git should completely ignore and not track.

This list covers all the major commands highlighted in the video's chapters. For a step-by-step guide with practical examples, watching the video from the start is highly recommended.

